What I want you to try to do real quick
is go grab something else, right?
If I gave you a suggestion,
it would be go grab this favicon,
which we know is tiny, right?
We're gonna use that instead and
you're gonna see that Vite does
something kind of cool in this case.
So kinda in our next science experiment,
what we're gonna
do is we've got the large image,
which is like, yoh, this is big, right?
I'm gonna split this out as an image,
but that favicon is real small, right?
Do we wanna make an x-ray CGB request?
No, probably not, right?
It's probably easier just to inline it.
And so you can see that Vite will actually
kind of look at the file itself, right?
A very big image,
it is gonna split out, it's gonna hash,
it's gonna do all the cache stuff
automatically on your behalf.
If you grab a small image like any kind
of the icons that you're using in your
application or anything along those lines,
it's gonna do something very different.
So what you're gonna do is you can
move that same one that I moved, but
then also go ahead and grab,
for instance, this favicon,
one of these smaller images, right?
And so we can grab this one.
I'm gonna go down, I'm just gonna
put a copy of it in here, right?
And what you're gonna
do is try both out and
tell me what you notice between the two
of what files do you end up with, whether
you use the big image or the small image,
and then see what the difference is.
And we'll kinda take a look at it and
see if we can acquiesce what happened by
looking at the network tab and
the sources tab and our developer tools.
It's been a few minutes.
Try both out.
If you have other images you wanna try,
put them into the soil, anything in
your soil structure is fair game.
So you can use the picture of me after
workshop or you can grab another one,
as long as you've got a relatively small,
I'll say hypothetically under 4K image and
then a relatively large one.
And what you're trying to is
important the both and use them and
see that There's a fundamental
difference both in the hashing and
the way Vite treats them that will
make your app perform differently.
How about that?
And you can probably take a lucky
guess on how it's gonna go but
try it out and
see what the differences are.
Before I had this big image, right, and
if we look, we generate a big image.
And then I grabbed a small image, right?
This favicon that I pulled over.
It's decent small image.
I'm gonna run this npm run build again and
there's no image.
It didn't spit out an image, right?
And if we look,
we can investigate what happened,
which is we can go into the,
in this case, our index.
And we'll do the quick
little save actually,
let's actually look in
the developer tools.
And here you can see my image loaded,
right?
But I didn't actually spit
it out as another image.
And so in this case, actually what
happens is that Vite will go ahead and
go in there and actually inline it.
You can see almost this
import statement here.
It will actually take it and
make it a base64 encoded image and
just include it in that file, right?
And so instead of making that
additional HTTP request, it will look.
It's like, hey, if this is small enough,
I'm just gonna inline it in there we're
not gonna make an extra request,
we're not going to worry about NSF.
We'll just put it directly in there.
I think we can see if we go into
the content, we've got the actual file
in this case, but you can see cuz
it's local host source, right?
If we look at the build version,
let's do the NPM run preview in this case,
I think that will show
us what we need to see.
npm run build, npm run preview.
It's a npx build preview,
npx build preview.
And now we'll go and
look at the built version.
This is where that preview becomes useful.
You can see the difference between
what we see in production, and
you can see that actually turned it into
a Base64 encoded image that it just put
right into the file itself.
And so it's trying to,
when in doubt, optimize stuff.
Right out of the box, that is 4k.
Anything out of 4K, it's just gonna
try to inline and include in there.
If you hate this for some reason, there
is a feature in the build process when we
look at the configuration,
you can set assets in line to zero.
It'll never do it.
You want bigger files,
you want smaller files,
you turn that number to whatever you want.
But again, a lot of these things,
you're gonna get some of these
optimizations for free, right?
We still have to do with
that giant image and
I I can either open it up in my
favorite photo editor and resize it.
But what if I wanna do source sets or
stuff along those lines and
I wanna have multiple sizes for
different viewports and
stuff along those lines,
all of that stuff?
Especially given a deadline or
something along those lines,
that's time-consuming, right?
It would be great if we could configure
our build tools to actually be able
to process the images the same way
it processes CSS through PostCSS, or
our TypeScript, or our JSX, or
something along those lines.